# K8s Pods
Pods are the smallest deployable units of computing that you can create and manage in Kubernetes.

A Pod is a group of one or more containers, with shared storage/network resources, and a specification for how to run the containers. A Pod's contents are always co-located and co-scheduled, and run in a shared context.

As well as application containers, a Pod can contain init containers that run during Pod startup. You can also inject ephemeral containers for debugging if your cluster offers this.

## What is a Pod?
Note: While Kubernetes supports more container runtimes than just Docker, Docker is the most commonly known runtime, and it helps to describe Pods using some terminology from Docker.
The shared context of a Pod is a set of Linux namespaces, cgroups, and potentially other facets of isolation - the same things that isolate a Docker container. Within a Pod's context, the individual applications may have further sub-isolations applied.

In terms of Docker concepts, a Pod is similar to a group of Docker containers with shared namespaces and shared filesystem volumes.

## Using Pods
Usually you don't need to create Pods directly, even singleton Pods. Instead, create them using workload resources such as Deployment or Job. If your Pods need to track state, consider the StatefulSet resource.

### Pods in a Kubernetes cluster are used in two main ways:

- Pods that run a single container. The "one-container-per-Pod" model is the most common Kubernetes use case; in this case, you can think of a Pod as a wrapper around a single container; Kubernetes manages Pods rather than managing the containers directly.

- Pods that run multiple containers that need to work together. A Pod can encapsulate an application composed of multiple co-located containers that are tightly coupled and need to share resources. These co-located containers form a single cohesive unit of service—for example, one container serving data stored in a shared volume to the public, while a separate sidecar container refreshes or updates those files. The Pod wraps these containers, storage resources, and an ephemeral network identity together as a single unit.


## Pods and controllers
You can use workload resources to create and manage multiple Pods for you. A controller for the resource handles replication and rollout and automatic healing in case of Pod failure. For example, if a Node fails, a controller notices that Pods on that Node have stopped working and creates a replacement Pod. The scheduler places the replacement Pod onto a healthy Node.

### Here are some examples of workload resources that manage one or more Pods:

- Deployment
- StatefulSet
- DaemonSet
- Pod templates
- Controllers for workload resources create Pods from a pod template and manage those Pods on your behalf.

### Example

```pod.yaml```

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox-sleep
spec:
  containers:
  - name: busybox
    image: busybox

    ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 8080
    
    env:
    - name: SOME_VARIABLE
      value: some_value

    resources:
      request:
        cpu: ???
        memory: ???
      limit:
        cpu: ???
        memory: ???

    readinessProbe:
      tcpSocket:
        port: ???

    livenessProbe:
      tcpSocket:
        port: ???   

    volumeMounts:
    - name: data
      mountPath: /data
  
  volumes:
  - name: data
    emptyDir: {}    
```

Kubectl command to create pod, list and delete pod
```
# Create pod in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f pod.yaml

# List pods in default namespace
$ kubectl get pod

# Delete pod in default namespace
$ kubectl delete -f pod.yaml
```