# Service
An abstract way to expose an application running on a set of Pods as a network service.
With Kubernetes you don't need to modify your application to use an unfamiliar service discovery mechanism. Kubernetes gives Pods their own IP addresses and a single DNS name for a set of Pods, and can load-balance across them.

## Motivation
Kubernetes Pods are created and destroyed to match the state of your cluster. Pods are nonpermanent resources. If you use a Deployment to run your app, it can create and destroy Pods dynamically.

Each Pod gets its own IP address, however in a Deployment, the set of Pods running in one moment in time could be different from the set of Pods running that application a moment later.

## Service resources
In Kubernetes, a Service is an abstraction which defines a logical set of Pods and a policy by which to access them (sometimes this pattern is called a micro-service). The set of Pods targeted by a Service is usually determined by a selector. To learn about other ways to define Service endpoints, see Services without selectors.

For example, consider a stateless image-processing backend which is running with 3 replicas. Those replicas are fungible—frontends do not care which backend they use. While the actual Pods that compose the backend set may change, the frontend clients should not need to be aware of that, nor should they need to keep track of the set of backends themselves.

The Service abstraction enables this decoupling.

## Cloud-native service discovery
If you're able to use Kubernetes APIs for service discovery in your application, you can query the API server for Endpoints, that get updated whenever the set of Pods in a Service changes.

For non-native applications, Kubernetes offers ways to place a network port or load balancer in between your application and the backend Pods.

## Service Types
- NodePort - expose app to node IP
- ClusterIP - expose app only inside cluster
- Loadbalancer - only for public clouds azure, google cloud atc. It will create loadbalancer and expose application on this loadbalancer

## Defining a Service
A Service in Kubernetes is a REST object, similar to a Pod. Like all of the REST objects, you can POST a Service definition to the API server to create a new instance. The name of a Service object must be a valid DNS label name.

For example, suppose you have a set of Pods that each listen on TCP port 9376 and carry a label app=MyApp:
```service.yaml```

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
spec:
  selector:
    app: MyApp
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 9376
```
Kubectl command to create service, list and delete service
```
# Create service in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f service.yaml

# List service in default namespace
$ kubectl get service

# Delete service in default namespace
$ kubectl delete -f service.yaml
```

