# ConfigMaps
A ConfigMap is an API object used to store non-confidential data in key-value pairs. Pods can consume ConfigMaps as environment variables, command-line arguments, or as configuration files in a volume.

A ConfigMap allows you to decouple environment-specific configuration from your container images, so that your applications are easily portable.

Caution: ConfigMap does not provide secrecy or encryption. If the data you want to store are confidential, use a Secret rather than a ConfigMap, or use additional (third party) tools to keep your data private.
Motivation
Use a ConfigMap for setting configuration data separately from application code.

For example, imagine that you are developing an application that you can run on your own computer (for development) and in the cloud (to handle real traffic). You write the code to look in an environment variable named DATABASE_HOST. Locally, you set that variable to localhost. In the cloud, you set it to refer to a Kubernetes Service that exposes the database component to your cluster. This lets you fetch a container image running in the cloud and debug the exact same code locally if needed.

## ConfigMap object
A ConfigMap is an API object that lets you store configuration for other objects to use. Unlike most Kubernetes objects that have a spec, a ConfigMap has data and binaryData fields. These fields accepts key-value pairs as their values. Both the data field and the binaryData are optional. The data field is designed to contain UTF-8 byte sequences while the binaryData field is designed to contain binary data.

## ConfigMaps and Pods 
You can write a Pod spec that refers to a ConfigMap and configures the container(s) in that Pod based on the data in the ConfigMap. The Pod and the ConfigMap must be in the same namespace.

Here's an example ConfigMap that has some keys with single values, and other keys where the value looks like a fragment of a configuration format.

```ConfigMap.yaml```
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: myconfigmap
data:
  oneLineVariable: "here"
  multilineVarible: |-
    #!/bin/bash

    echo "hello"
```
```podWithConfigMap.yaml```
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: mypod
    image: redis
    volumeMounts:
    - name: foo
      mountPath: "/var/data/oneLineVariable"
      subPath: oneLineVariable
    - name: foo
      mountPath: "/var/data/multilineVarible"
      subPath: multilineVarible  
  volumes:
  - name: foo
    configMap:
      name: myconfigmap
```
Kubectl command to create ConfigMap, and pod using this config map
```
# First create ConfigMap in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f ConfigMap.yaml

# List ConfigMap in default namespace
$ kubectl get cm

# Crate podWithConfigMap in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f podWithConfigMap.yaml

# List pod in default namespace
$ kubectl get pod
```
