# Secrets
Kubernetes Secrets let you store and manage sensitive information, such as passwords, OAuth tokens, and ssh keys. Storing confidential information in a Secret is safer and more flexible than putting it verbatim in a Pod definition or in a container image. See Secrets design document for more information.

## Overview of Secrets
A Secret is an object that contains a small amount of sensitive data such as a password, a token, or a key. Such information might otherwise be put in a Pod specification or in an image. Users can create secrets and the system also creates some secrets.

To use a secret, a Pod needs to reference the secret. A secret can be used with a Pod in three ways:

As files in a volume mounted on one or more of its containers.
As container environment variable.
By the kubelet when pulling images for the Pod.
The name of a Secret object must be a valid DNS subdomain name.

The keys of data and stringData must consist of alphanumeric characters, -, _ or ..

## Creating a Secret

```secret.yaml```
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: Opaque
metadata:
  name: mysecret
data:
  username: YWRtaW4=
  password: MWYyZDFlMmU2N2Rm
```

## Using Secrets
Secrets can be mounted as data volumes or exposed as environment variables to be used by a container in a Pod. Secrets can also be used by other parts of the system, without being directly exposed to the Pod. For example, Secrets can hold credentials that other parts of the system should use to interact with external systems on your behalf.


This is an example of a Pod that mounts a Secret in a volume:

```podWithSecret.yaml```
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: mypod
    image: redis
    volumeMounts:
    - name: foo
      mountPath: "/etc/secret"
      readOnly: true
  volumes:
  - name: foo
    secret:
      secretName: mysecret
```

Kubectl command to create secret, and pod using this secret
```
# First create secret in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f secret.yaml

# List secret in default namespace
$ kubectl get secret

# Crate podWithSecret in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f podWithSecret.yaml

# List pod in default namespace
$ kubectl get pod
```