# Persistent Volumes
This document describes the current state of persistent volumes in Kubernetes. Familiarity with volumes is suggested.

## Introduction
- Managing storage is a distinct problem from managing compute instances. The PersistentVolume subsystem provides an API for users and administrators that abstracts details of how storage is provided from how it is consumed. To do this, we introduce two new API resources: PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim.

- A PersistentVolume (PV) is a piece of storage in the cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator or dynamically provisioned using Storage Classes. It is a resource in the cluster just like a node is a cluster resource. PVs are volume plugins like Volumes, but have a lifecycle independent of any individual Pod that uses the PV. This API object captures the details of the implementation of the storage, be that NFS, iSCSI, or a cloud-provider-specific storage system.

- A PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) is a request for storage by a user. It is similar to a Pod. Pods consume node resources and PVCs consume PV resources. Pods can request specific levels of resources (CPU and Memory). Claims can request specific size and access modes (e.g., they can be mounted ReadWriteOnce, ReadOnlyMany or ReadWriteMany, see AccessModes).

- While PersistentVolumeClaims allow a user to consume abstract storage resources, it is common that users need PersistentVolumes with varying properties, such as performance, for different problems. Cluster administrators need to be able to offer a variety of PersistentVolumes that differ in more ways than just size and access modes, without exposing users to the details of how those volumes are implemented. For these needs, there is the StorageClass resource.

### StorageClass
Cluster provider or operation team can create storage classes for example for:
- dbs - fast storage
- apps-config - normal storage
- backup - slow storage

You can refer to those StorageClasses and use storage dependng on your useCases.

### PersistentVolume
To alocate disk space in storage you have to create persistant volume object and refer to storage class you want to use (if not default).

```persistenVolume.yaml```
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: task-pv-volume
spec:
  storageClassName: manual
  capacity:
    storage: 10Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  hostPath:
    path: "/mnt/data"
```


### PersistentVolumeClaims
To connect pod to persistent volume you need to create persistentVolumeClaim
```persistenVolumeClaim.yaml```
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: task-pv-claim
spec:
  storageClassName: manual
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 3Gi
```

```podWihPersistentVolume.yaml```

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: task-pv-pod
spec:

  volumes:
    - name: task-pv-storage
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: task-pv-claim

  containers:
    - name: task-pv-container
      image: nginx

      volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: "/usr/share/nginx/html"
          name: task-pv-storage
```
Kubectl command to create PersistentVolume, PersistentVolumeClaim, and pod using this PersistentVolumeClaim
```
# First create PersistentVolume in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f PersistentVolume.yaml

# Second create PersistentVolumeClaim in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f PersistentVolumeClaim.yaml

# Crate podWihPersistentVolume in default namespace
$ kubectl apply -f podWihPersistentVolume.yaml

# List PersistentVolume in default namespace
$ kubectl get pv

# List PersistentVolumeClaim in default namespace
$ kubectl get pvc

# List pod in default namespace
$ kubectl get pod
```

## Types of Volumes
Kubernetes supports several types of Volumes:

- awsElasticBlockStore
- azureDisk
- azureFile
- cephfs
- cinder
- configMap
- csi
- downwardAPI
- emptyDir
- fc (fibre channel)
- flexVolume
- flocker
- gcePersistentDisk
- gitRepo (deprecated)
- glusterfs
- hostPath
- iscsi
- local
- nfs
- persistentVolumeClaim
- projected
- portworxVolume
- quobyte
- rbd
- scaleIO
- secret
- storageos
- vsphereVolume

## Usualy used PV
- configMap
- emptyDir
- hostPath
- persistentVolumeClaim
- secret